# timesheet-service - CRUD service for timesheets

## Functionality

<p> This is REST API for the timesheet maintenance of some fictious company. The following standard endpoints are implemented: </p>
   
   * ADD a new timesheet
   * EDIT an existing timesheet
   * DELETE an existing timesheet
   * display an existing timesheet by ID
   * display all timesheets
   * display all timesheet for the given client

<p> Additionally one utility endpoint is implemented: </p>
   * LOAD data from the given CSV file to the database

## Business Rules

### ADD function
<p> All fields except for the ID are mandatory. The ID value is generated by the sevice. The ADD function is NOT idempotent.
Therefore a new entity wiould be created every time when the ADD fucntion is called. In a real life we might want to implement some
business rules for "the uniqueness by business keys". </p>

### EDIT function
<p> All fields are mandatory. The ID value MUST be provided in as an URI parameter. If the ID is not provided - error is generated. </p>.

### DELETE function
<p>DELETE operation requires the ID to be provided in the URI. The DELETE function is implemented as idempotent.
Therefore is a timesheet too be deleted is NOT found then we return a success. So the DELETE can be executed many tumes
for the same entity without breaking the data.</p>

### DisplayByID function
<p>This function must have an ID in the URI. If the entoty is NOT found then we return 404 error. Otherwise we return
a requested timesheet. </p>

### DisplayByClient function
<P>Parameter "client" in URI is required. This function returns all timesheets for a certain client.</p>

### DisplayAll function
<P>This function returns all timesheets.</p>

## Prerequisites
* JVM 1.8
```
    java -version
    java version "1.8.0_211"
    Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_211-b12)
    Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.211-b12, mixed mode)
```
* Gradle 4.10
```
    gradle --version
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Gradle 4.10
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Build time:   2018-08-27 18:35:06 UTC
    Revision:     ee3751ed9f2034effc1f0072c2b2ee74b5dce67d
    Kotlin DSL:   1.0-rc-3
    Kotlin:       1.2.60
    Groovy:       2.4.15
    Ant:          Apache Ant(TM) version 1.9.11 compiled on March 23 2018
    JVM:          1.8.0_211 (Oracle Corporation 25.211-b12)
    OS:           Mac OS X 10.14.3 x86_64
```
* git version 2.18.0
```
    git --version
    git version 2.18.0
```
## How to clone, build and run
* create a new folder somewehere on your machine
```
    mkdir tempDir
```
* navigate to your new directory you just created:
```
    cd tempDir
```
* clone the project into your new directory:
```
    git clone https://github.com/AlexGordonGBS/timesheet-service.git
```
* navigate to the timesheet-service directory inside your tempDir:
```
    cd timesheet-service
```
* run the build:
```
    gradle clean build
```
* start the service:
```
    java -jar build/libs/timesheet-service-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
* PostMan collection to test the project can be found here:
```
    ...timesheet-service/src/test/resources/Timesheet-service.postman_collection.json
```

//By Alex Gordon - 2019.
